2003-05-05

This directory contains various tools that may be useful:

 sane-find-scanner:
        Attempts to find a SCSI scanner attached to your system.
        Invoke with "sane-find-scanner -h" to get command-line
        syntax. More details can be found in the man page
        sane-find-scanner(1).

 xerox:
        A simple script to make photocopies ("xeroxing").  In
        the script, you may need to adjust the device name
        assigned to variable DEV and the resolution assigned
        to variable RES as well as the paper with and height
        (variables WIDTH and HEIGHT, respectively.

 mustek600iin-off:
        Allows you to turn off a Mustek 600 II N scanner.
        Use "make mustek600iin-off" to compile.

 umax_pp:
	Command line utility to scan on UMAX astra 1220P,
	1600P and 2000P, without using the backend. So that
	scanner protocol can be tested directly.

 gamma4scanimage: creates a gamma table in the format expected by scanimage.
	You can define a gamma value, shadow and highlight. 
	Take a look at manual page  gamma4scanimage for further information.

Maybe useful for SANE developers:

 sane-config:
        Show SANE version, linker flags etc. Might be useful for 
        frontend developers.

 sane-desc:
        Generate SANE webpages (and ASCII lists) from backend .desc files.
        Run "sane-desc --help" for details. The default lists are generated
        in doc/Makefile. 

 sane-desc.el, sane-desc-ext.el (OBSOLETE):
        These are the old elisp scripts to automagically generate descriptive
        SANE webpages from backend .desc files with emacs. Look at the
        top of the file for more details. They are here just for reference. Use
        sane-desc instead.

 check-po.awk:
        Print untranslated and fuzzy messages and their line numbers in the
        source code and po file. Example:
           cd po/ ; ../tools/check-po.awk sane-backends.de.po
        You may need to adjust the path of awk in the first line of the
        script. More documentation is in the script itself.